---
layout: article
category: Swift
date: 2022-03-14
title: How to delay execution or scheduled automatic operations in SwiftUI
excerpt: "How to delay execution of operations or scheduled automatic execution of operations (using timer Timer and asynchronous DispatchQueue.main.asyncAfter)."
---
In the process of developing software, we not only need to perform operations when the user clicks, but sometimes we also need to automatically perform some operations at regular intervals. For example, the most common opening screen advertisement countdown is closed, as well as some animation effects. There are generally two ways to implement these: one is to use a timer, and the other is to use asynchronous operations.

## Advantages and Disadvantages
  - Timer controls how often a function is called, which means that the advantage of Timer is that it can run automatically until it is destroyed. The disadvantage is that the time interval is fixed and difficult to adjust (in theory, a variable can be used to control the interval, but it may be more troublesome). Generally, if you need to implement the timer function, choose this.
  - Asynchronous operation controls how long to wait before calling this call. In other words, the advantage of asynchronous is that you can control the length of this interval. The disadvantage is that it is inconvenient to run all the time. Generally, you need to wait for a period of time to run before using this, such as loading materials, network resources, etc.; or to achieve some strange effects.

## How to use timer Timer
First we need to create a new Timer and use the following method to create it. The last `.autoconnect()` is used to automatically start the connection timer. We can also use `.connect()` to manually activate the connection.

```swift
let timer = Timer.publish(every: 3, on: .main, in: .common).autoconnect()
```

Here are some parameters:

  - `every:`: This parameter is used to control how often the Timer is updated, in seconds. The `3` here means 3 seconds.
  - `on:`: This indicates when to activate this Timer. The `.main` here means that it will be activated when the main thread is running (that is, it will be activated when the app starts running). There is also `.current` which means it is activated when the current thread is running (that is, it means it is activated when the current view interface is displayed). It is best not to activate a timer on one thread on another thread, as this may lead to erroneous results.
  - `in:`: This is the loop mode of Timer. There are `.common`, `.default` and `.tracking`. `.common` contains a pseudo-mode for one or more other run loop modes. When using this mode to add an object to a run loop, the run loop monitors the object when running in any of the common modes. For more information about adding a run loop mode to the common mode set, see [CFRunMode](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/corefoundation/1542137-cfrunloopaddcommonmode). `.default` is set to the mode for processing input sources other than the connection object, which is the most commonly used run loop mode. `.tracking` Mode set when tracking in a control, you can use this mode to add a timer that fires during tracking.

It should be noted that if you are developing on macOS, there will be two more modes: `.eventTracking` and `.modalPanel`. `.eventTracking` is the mode set when tracking events modally, such as a mouse drag loop. `.modalPanel` is the mode set when waiting for input from a modal panel (such as saving or opening a panel).

Then close and disconnect the Timer as follows:

```swift
self.timer.upstream.connect().cancel()
```

Timer looks complicated, but you don’t need to think too much about using it. Next, let’s talk about how to use Timer after creating it.

In SwiftUI, we can let the view perform some operations when some data changes by using `.onReceive()`. The specific method is as follows:

```swift
.onReceive(timer) { _ in
print("Timer active, add 1 second")
}
```

Then write a simple timer interface that counts down from 5 and loops again after the countdown:

```swift
struct TimerView: View {
     @State private var timer = Timer.publish(every: 1, on: .main, in: .common).autoconnect()
     @State private var countNum = 5
     var body: some View {
         Text("\(countNum)")
             .onReceive(timer) { input in
                 if countNum > 0{
                     countNum -= 1
                 } else if countNum == 0{
                     countNum = 5
                 }
             }
     }
}
```

## Asynchronous operation DispatchQueue
Next, let’s talk about the asynchronous operation `DispatchQueue`. This is also very commonly used, especially when you need to load data or do effects or animations. It is very easy to use.

How to use it:

```swift
DispatchQueue.main.asyncAfter(deadline: .now() + .seconds(1), execute: {
     print("The wait is over!")
})
```

Introduce the parameters:

  - `deadline:`: When to perform the operation, `.now() + .seconds(1)` here means waiting for 1 second starting from the current time.
  - `execute:`: What operation needs to be performed.

This is relatively simple, so I won’t introduce it in too much detail.

I hope these will help someone in need~