---
layout: article
category: UNIX
date: 2022-09-16
title: How to move installed WSL (Ubuntu) to another drive or location
excerpt: "Due to my C drive is almost full, and not empty much after try to clean it, so I plan to move WSL to a new drive."
originurl: "https://blog.csdn.net/qq_33919450/article/details/126863617"
---
Recently, the `C` drive is almost full with using, and not empty much after cleaning it, so I plan to move WSL to a new drive. In the settings, "Ubuntu on Windows" has a "Move" button, but it is set to "**cannot Move**". After spending a long time to try to cleaning, I found that it is better to move it to another drive, otherwise it will easily fill up.

## Method and notices
After some research, I didn't find a perfect implementation method, but I find a method that barely be regarded as a method, it is imperfect (why it is not perfect will be explained in detail later). The operation logic is:
1. Export the current WSL as a compressed package (the compressed package is due to command restrictions and can speed up the movement. And the `C` drive is full, it is better to directly export to the target drive).
2. Import the previously compressed WSL compressed package.

**One thing you must notice: The reason why this method is not perfect is that all associated data and software will be lost.** Because for import, need to log out and uninstall the old WSL to free up the full space and use the following commands to do:

```
wsl --unregister WSL_NAME_INSTALLED
```

This command will lost all settings, data and softwares of WSL.

=======2023-04-10========
You can back up your old WSL data and software from `C:\Users\USERNAME\AppData\Local\Packages\CanonicalGroupLimited.Ubuntu_79rhkp1fndgsc`. This is the default path for WSL.

## Export the WSL that needs to be moved
The first step is to export the WSL installed. The method is very simple.

Open PowerShell and use the following command:

```
wsl --export WSL_NAME_INSTALLE TARGET_PATH\CUSTOM_NAME.tar
```

For example, there is a WSL named "`Ubuntu`" located on the `C` drive. We want to move it to the `G` drive, and the output tar file is named "`myUbuntu.tar`":

```
wsl --export Ubuntu G:\\WSL\myUbuntu.tar
```

## Import WSL compressed package
Importing a compressed package is same as importing a distribution.

But you need free space of old WSL, so use following command:

```
wsl --unregister WSL_NAME_INSTELLED
```

This command will lost all settings, data and softwares of WSL.

This is an example as before:

```
wsl --unregister Ubuntu
```

Then import the WSL package:

```
wsl --import WSL_NAME PATH WSL_PACKAGE_PATH
```

For example:

```
wsl --import Ubuntu G:\\WSL G:\\WSL\myUbuntu.tar
```

It have moved to new position and you can re-open terminal to use, but lost all data.

I hope these will help someone in need~
